When the left and right lower chambers of the heart
do not beat in sync,
A doctor may suggest
Cardiac Resynchronization Therapy, or CRT.
It may also be called Biventricular Pacing.
CRT uses an implantable cardiac defibrillator, or ICD,
which is inserted into the chest.
A doctor inserts tiny wires, called "leads,"
Into the vein just below the collarbone.
Two leads are attached to the heart muscle,
in the upper right and lower right chambers.
A third lead runs through a small opening
in the upper right chamber.
It runs from the back side of the heart
to the front, and attaches to the lower left chamber
The leads all connect to a pacing device
that is inserted into a small opening in the chest.
This device constatly monitors the heartbeat.
If it is out of sync,
the pacemaker sends a tiny
electrical pulse to the heart
to correct the rhythm.
If the heartbeat is not corrected,
The ICD will send a high-energy shock
to restart the heart's rhythm.